---
title: "May 2020 - Vercel"
source: "Vercel Blog"
url: "https://vercel.com/blog/changelog-may-2020"
date: "2020-05-01"
scraped_at: "2026-03-02T10:06:42.460192678+00:00"
language: "en"
translated: false
description: "Vercel's changelog for May 2020"
---




May 1, 2020

## Dashboard

- Environment Variables inserted in the Project Settings can now contain newlines. Copy and paste your value, or use

`Shift` \+ `Enter` to submit values with newlines.

- A new [Contact page](https://vercel.com/contact) has been launched, which allows for easily creating support tickets or reaching out to our sales team.

- No more "Visit" tooltip is rendered when hovering a deployment URL. Instead, the "Visit" button on the deployment view can be used.

- The "Functions" tab on the deployment view now clearly defines that logs are realtime and need to be forwarded to a third party for retroactive inspection (storing).

- Opening the Team Settings doesn't automatically focus on the Team URL anymore.

- Environment Variables in the Activity feed are now truncated in length.

- On the [installation page](https://vercel.com/download) for our command-line interface, the `vercel` package is now recommended instead of the legacy `now` package.

- Hitting the limit of 10 team members on the Pro plan now presents a button for easily contacting the Sales team.

- Introduced a limit of 100 Environment Variables per Project.

- Made "Ionic Angular" or "Docusaurus 2" templates work again.

- Signing up with a Git account that is already connected to a personal Vercel account will now offer you to log in instead of erroring.

- Signing up with a Git account that has the same email address as a personal Vercel account will now offer you to merge them instead of creating a new one.

  - Trying to log in with a Git account that is not connected to a personal Vercel account will now log you into a personal Vercel account that has the same email address.

## Domains

- Removing a domain now triggers a cascade of events that will clean up all of its associated Aliases, Certificates and DNS Records from the system.


## Deployments

- Selecting "Other" in the list of framework presets, overriding the Build Command and then creating a deployment containing `vercel.json` and a few static files does not cause an error anymore.


## Documentation

- A new `permanent` property was added to the [configuration reference](https://vercel.com/docs/configuration#project/redirects) of the new `redirects` routing property.

- Te [configuration reference](https://vercel.com/docs/configuration#project/routes) for the `routes` property now makes it clear that it cannot be used in conjunction with the new routing properties.

- An example was [added](https://vercel.com/docs/v2/build-step#system-environment-variables) to each of the System Environment Variables.


## Git Integration

- The `vercel.json` and `.vercelignore` configuration files are now supported for GitHub, GitLab and Bitbucket.


## Command Line

- A new package named `vercel` was published to [npm](http://npmjs.org/) and it comes with support for `vercel.json`, `.vercelignore`, and two binaries named `vercel` and `vc`.