---
title: "March 2020 - Vercel"
source: "Vercel Blog"
url: "https://vercel.com/blog/changelog-march-2020"
date: "2020-03-01"
scraped_at: "2026-03-02T10:07:09.435251192+00:00"
language: "en"
translated: false
description: "Vercel's changelog for March 2020"
---




Mar 1, 2020

## Dashboard

- Deleted teams and personal accounts will now undergo a buffer period during which they may be recovered (7 days for teams and 48 hours for personal accounts). Only after this period, their usernames and slugs will be available.

- The "need help?" link in the "Domains" settings of each project now opens the support form instead of a ZenDesk modal.

- Using a team slug that used to be the a username of personal account is now possible, but requires the personal account that used to own the name to deploy to the team, in order to "unlock" the name.

- The "Billing" page of Personal Accounts (Hobby) now properly mentions that Personal Accounts cannot be upgraded and remain free forever. However, creating a team is advised for professional use cases or collaborating with other people.

- Personal accounts and teams now render a "Invite Team" button on the dashboard, which allows for creating a team and inviting members much more easily.

- The "Tokens" page now shows a "Load More" button if more than 20 tokens are present.

- Public Deployments now show Domains on their overview instead of `–`.

- A "Preview Deployment Suffix" fieldset was added to the team settings, which let's you replace the `now.sh` suffix with a Custom Domain.


## Git Integration

- For the [GitHub integration](https://zeit.co/github), personal accounts on Vercel can only be connected to personal accounts on GitHub, not organizations.


## Documentation

- Configuration and API References will now show up in the documentation search.

- The information about how to retrieve data for a team has moved from the "Users and Teams" section in "Platform" to the [API reference](https://zeit.co/docs/api#api-basics/authentication/accessing-resources-owned-by-a-team).

- The maximum payload for Serverless Functions is now [documented](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/platform/limits#serverless-function-payload-size-limit).

- Now that Preview Deployments are responding with a `X-Robots-Tag` header set to `noindex`, a detailed section was added [here](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/platform/deployments#preview).

- Detailed instructions about how to disconnect the GitHub, Bitbucket or GitLab integration were added to their respective documentation pages ( [example at the bottom](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/git-integrations/zeit-now-for-github)).

- The Developer Tools Console on the Documentation now prints a link to the respective Git commit.

- [Removed](https://github.com/zeit/now/pull/3864) all examples for which no option is provided in the Project Settings.


## Deployments

- Personal accounts that downgrade to the "Hobby" plan will not see their deployments get blocked anymore.

- Updated Ruby to version [2.7.x](https://zeit.co/docs/runtimes#official-runtimes/ruby/ruby-version) for new deployments.


## Domains

- Moving a domain to a different personal account or team now works flawlessly again.

- The `.yt` TLD is no longer available due to requiring a local address.