---
title: "August 2020 - Vercel"
source: "Vercel Blog"
url: "https://vercel.com/blog/changelog-august-2020"
date: "2020-08-01"
scraped_at: "2026-03-02T10:06:34.959403937+00:00"
language: "en"
translated: false
description: "Vercel's changelog for August 2020"
---




Aug 1, 2020

## Deployments

- The Node.js version available to newly created Deployments was bumped from `12.16.2` to `12.18.3`. No changes to your code are required – you only need to create a new one.

- The [RedwoodJS framework](https://redwoodjs.com/) is now automatically detected when creating new Vercel Projects using the Dashboard or Vercel CLI.

- When redeploying a Deployment or promoting it to Production, a new pipeline is used, which drastically increases the reliability of the features.

- Custom uploaded SSL Certificates will now take precedence over SSL Certificates that were generated by the system.

- If a [Runtime](https://vercel.com/docs/runtimes#official-runtimes) fails to install from npm during the Build Step of a Deployment, the error will now be surfaced in the build logs.

- For new Projects, selecting "Other" as the framework preset in the Project Settings will no longer auto-detect the Next.js framework. Existing Projects are not affected.

- If a `vercel-build` script is present in `package.json`, that will be now be preferred over an existing build script.


## Dashboard

- The "Visit" button on the Deployment View now always links to the URL of the Deployment – no matter which other Domains were assigned to it.

- Every Project listed the Dashboard now has a "Updated" indicator, which reflects when the Project's settings were last changed and when a Deployment was created for it the last time.

- The Production Deployment card on the Project View now uses a deterministic way of deciding your "Primary Domain", which is the Domain that serves your visitors. This is done by finding a Domain in the Project Settings that neither has a Redirect, nor a Git Branch and that is the shortest (alphabetically sorted). Based on that Domain, your current Production Deployment will be resolved.

- The "Visit" button on the Project View now uses the same logic as described above to determine which Domain to link to.

- Below the Production Deployment card on the Project View, the upcoming Deployment that will become your current Production Deployment is now rendered.

- It's now possible to select [RedwoodJS](https://redwoodjs.com/) as a framework preset in the Project Settings.

- Toggling the [Logs and Source Protection](https://vercel.com/docs/platform/projects#logs-and-source-protection) field in the Project Settings will now effect all Deployments created before July 9th, 2020 at 7:05 AM (UTC) too. Deployments created before this date used to be excluded.

- Screenshots of Deployments will no longer mistakenly render a login screenshot.

- Creating a new Project from a public GitLab repository will no longer require the destination Vercel scope to be connected to GitLab. Instead, you can also use GitHub or Bitbucket.

- Creating a new Project will now render a regular text field for the Environment Variable value. It will only change into a larger text field if a multi-line string is pasted or if the shift key is held while pressing enter.

- It's now possible to create a new Project from a GitLab repository located within a GitLab subgroup.

- Adjusted Build and Development Settings while creating a new Project from a Git repository or Template will now be retained when changing the viewport width.

- It's now possible to create a new Team with special characters in its name (such as umlauts) while creating a new Project from a Git repository or Template. Previously, a duplicate Team with a different name was created.

- Creating a new Project from a Git repository will no longer indefinitely render loading indicators in place of the framework logos within the Root Directory selection page the second time the same Git repository is used.

- Creating a new Project from a Git repository will no longer retain any errors for subsequent times the same Git repository is used.

- Updating the Git Integration configuration in the Project Settings will no longer render an empty confirmation toast.

- It's no longer possible to leave a Team if you're the last confirmed Team Member. In that case, you will be prompted to delete it instead.

- The buttons for redeploying or deleting a Deployment will no longer be visible for public Deployments that are accessed by someone that is not the owner.

- When taking a screenshot of a Deployment, the Dashboard will now set a special user agent that allows customers to filter out the request in analytics.

- The confirmation message that shows up when requesting the deletion of a Personal Account or Team was adjusted to reflect the new deletion buffer time of 4 days.


## Domains

- A more helpful "Name" column will now be rendered for `CNAME` and `A` DNS Record suggestions on the Domains page in the Project Settings.

- Whenever a Domain is configured using a `CNAME` or `A` DNS Record, but also contains a conflicting `CAA` or `AAAA` record, a helpful message will be rendered on the respective Domain entry in the Project Settings.


## Integrations

- Whenever a Deployment created by a [Git Integration](https://vercel.com/docs/git-integrations) fails or is canceled, the respective comment on the Pull Request will now reflect the new state.

- Pull Requests augmented by the [Git Integrations](https://vercel.com/docs/git-integrations) will no longer render "In Progress" for both the "Inspect" and the "Preview" URL.


## Command-Line

- All commands related to Domains were adjusted to match the Dashboard's behavior.

- When uploading files for a Deployment, Vercel CLI will now try to re-use existing connections instead of opening many new ones.

- All the features and behavior related to ZEIT Now 1.0 was removed from Vercel CLI.

- Whenever `vercel dev` is invoked for a local directory that is not yet linked to a Vercel Project, the command will automatically offer linking it.

- A new `vercel link` command was added for linking your local directory to a Vercel Project.

- The Development Command invoked by `vercel dev` will now receive a `x-vercel-deployment-url` header with every incoming request again.

- The message that recommends upgrading Vercel CLI will no longer be displayed if the installed version is already the most recent one.


## Other

- All documentation pages related to ZEIT Now 1.0 were removed.

- Tokens will now expire after 10 days of inactivity.

- All packages owned by Vercel that have names starting with `now-` or `@now` were marked as deprecated on npm.